Johnniac printer	used a high–speed 140–column rotating–drum printer made by the engineering firm Anderson–Nichols. It was both faster and wider than others of the time.
George Stibitz (1904–1995)	who worked on anti–aircraft guns in world war II brought about the  Complex Number Calculator, which was operational in 1940, and it was the first computer accessed over a phone line
ENIAC	(Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer), built between 1943 and 1945—the first large–scale computer to run at electronic speed without being slowed by any mechanical parts. For a decade, until a 1955 lightning strike, ENIAC may have run more calculations than all mankind had done up to that point.\nJohn Mauchly was the principal consultant and inspirational leader of the ENIAC project.
Colossus	Breaking the Code\nThe ability to send secret, encoded communications led to ruthless devastation by Nazi troops early in WWII. Then mathematicians and engineers rushed to build a machine capable of breaking the codes, that is why we pay tribute to “Colossus” for helping to end the war and begin the age of computing.\ncolossus narrow taping pulley: This is one of few surviving pieces of the Colossus machines used at Britain’s Bletchley Park to break German Lorenz codes during WWII. Winston Churchill acknowledged that they shortened the war, but ordered the machines destroyed and kept secret.
ENIGMA encryption/decryption device	The ENIGMA cipher machine was used by the German military in WWII. Messages typed into the machine were encrypted and then sent by Morse code. Special–purpose machines in both the US and Britain secretly broke the ENIGMA codes.
Manchester Small Scale Experimental Machine ("Baby")	This groundbreaking demonstration machine was the first computer to execute a program from memory. Parts of the "Baby" were later incorporated into a larger machine, the Manchester Mark I.
EDSAC	The Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator (EDSAC), developed at Britain’s Cambridge University, ran its first programs in 1949. It became the first stored–program computer in regular use, heralding the transition from test to tool.
EDSAC mercury memory tank cover	Cambridge’s EDSAC, the Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator, used mercury delay line memory. Originally designed for radar displays, delay lines provided memory for many first–generation computers. EDSAC’s 32 mercury tanks could each hold 32 18–bit words.
PILOT ACE	This is simpler than Turing’s full ACE (Automatic Computing Engine) design, was completed at NPL in 1950. It was built as a test machine.
A New Speed Record	Harry Huskey had been an engineer on the ENIAC, EDVAC, and ACE computers and worked in the UK with Alan Turing before designing the SWAC. Huskey.
The SWAC	(Standards Western Automatic Computer) became the world’s fastest computer when completed in 1950, a year before Princeton’s IAS machine.
The first PC (IBM compatible) computer	TRUE
